---
layout: page
title: "Bayesian Analysis of Respondent-driven sampling"
description: "Bachelor dissertation entitled Prevalence Estimation and binary regression 
          methods for respondent-driven sampling with outcome uncertainty."
img: assets/img/rds.png
importance: 1
category: 2021
---

The work was carried out at the School of Applied Mathematics of Fundação Getulio Vargas (FGV/EMAp),
under the supervision of [Luiz Max Carvalho](https://github.com/maxbiostat), as part of the requirements for obtaining a 
Bachelor's degree in Applied Mathematics. 
The object of study was prevalence estimation with regression for a snowball-like sampling, called Respondent-driven Sampling (RDS), using Bayesian Inference as the main tool.

[Download the text here](https://bibliotecadigital.fgv.br/dspace/bitstream/handle/10438/31844/TCC%20-%20Lucas%20Moschen.pdf?sequence=1).

Abstract
---

Hard-to-reach populations are difficult to access for researchers or refuse to enrol in
public health surveys, making enumeration and sampling challenges. Respondent-driven
sampling (RDS) is a chain-referral technique used to recruit individuals from hard-to-reach
populations. The survey encourages the participants to recruit their peers, giving incentives
to each recruitment and for participation. Since there is no enumeration of the subjects,
RDS is a non-probabilistic sampling strategy. Moreover, the graphical structure of RDS
suffers from missing data, and several assumptions about the recruitment process are
necessary.

After having the sampled individuals, understanding their characteristics is a focus in
epidemiology, given that these are usually high-risk populations to some diseases. There-
fore, estimating the disease prevalence, the proportion of infected individuals, and the
dependence among other observed variables is a critical step for public decision making.
Diagnostic tests for disease identification are subject to misclassification, and incorporating
their accuracy corrects biases in the prevalence estimation problem. This work proposes
the use of regression techniques for prevalence estimation in respondent-driven samples.
We use conditionally autoregressive models to represent correlation among the individuals
induced by recruitment.

In modern statistics, understanding situations with unknown information and quantifying
them plays a significant role. We use Bayesian inference for uncertainty quantification for
our models. In the Bayesian paradigm, probability distributions for quantities of interest
represent the belief about them. We discuss different prior specification approaches for the
parameters and examine uncertainty about the graph structure using a graphical model of
RDS. To perform sampling from the parameter distribution, we used the Hamiltonian Monte
Carlo sampler. Diagnostics of this method helped to improve our model programming.
Verification of the model through simulation and external datasets showed robust results,
and we propose model extensions for the limitations of this work.

**Keywords:** respondent-driven sampling, regression analysis, Bayesian inference, prevalence
estimation, misclassification, sensitivity, specificity

**GitHub repository:** All the work is available at [GitHub](https://github.com/lucasmoschen/rds-bayesian-analysis-tcc).

